Hello and welcome back.
In this lecture I want you guys to be able to test your knowledge on the composite design pattern.
So we have another assignment another challenge the requirements of this assignment are as follows.
We're going to use the composite pattern to implement an application that stores information for a college
organization.
We want to understand the hierarchy of the faculty so we have many professors with different titles.
An adjunct professor and associate professor or full professor.
We also have two heads of departments.
These are department chairs one for computer science and one for mathematics the Maddox math mathematics
department has two faculty members the computer science department has three faculty members.
So you see the layers here that were that I'm identifying again you can kind of think of these all of
art as objects try to identify the composites versus the Leafs or the composites are going to have faculty
underneath them and the faculties themselves are going to be Leaf's.
We also have a dean who can be the head of multiple departments.
So the Dean is at that top layer the grouping that we want to achieve is to show the hierarchy of the
technology department who is the dean of technology how many departments or chairs are under this Dean.
How many professors are in each department.
So you need to create many different objects that represent this hierarchy.
Again to summarize one dean of technology this is a composite since it has faculty under it two departments
a math and a computer science department.
They have chairs composite since it has faculty underneath it and then two professors under math and
three professors under computer science each professor is a primitive object.
That's a leaf.
Nothing below it.
So the steps to implement this assignment are you first have to identify and create the component interface.
This is what the client's going to use this component interfaces are going to allow you to treat leaves
and composites in the same manner.
So the first step is to create the component it declares the interface for the object and the composition
it implements default behavior for the interface common to all classes.
It declares an interface for access to commanding managing its child components.
Now you can have this these access methods in this class or you can treat everything you formally or
you can put it in the composite class.
It's up to you our component is represented by the faculty interface contains a get details method that
returns a string.
Let's assume that the Dean chair and professors are all faculty members.
Right.
So the faculty interface is the component interface.
That's what the client sees.
One method get details.
We have to then identify and create all the Leafs.
Those are the primitive objects.
This would be the leaf object and the composition remember leaf has no children.
Right.
So the pop defines behavior for both the primitive objects in the composition our leaf as a professor.
All professors have a name a position and an office number.
And the professor will implement the component the faculty interface.
The next step is to create the composite.
This is will define all the behavior for the components having children having leaves store as child
components implements child related operations in the component interface.
So you can declare these methods in here or you can implement them from the interface the component.
It's up to you but they're adding removing and so forth from the data structure our composite is the
supervisor who has faculty under them.
This they have a name and a department name and methods include Add Remove get my faculty and get details
get my faculty will only return the faculty directly under that supervisor the component represents
a group of objects Deans who have chairs who have professors chairs who have professors under them we
can treat a group of objects the deans and the chairs the same way as a single object the professors
and that's the whole point of the composite interface.
When you current you have to create the client next and when you create the client that's going to manipulate
the objects in the composition through the component interface.
Remember just to summarize is a lot going on here.
We have one Dean two heads of departments Department chairs one for computer science and one for math
the mathematics department has two faculty members in the computer science department has three faculty
members all these objects should be created and organized based on their grouping to component objects.
The dean and the chairs all faculty under the Dean all faculty under the chairs the rest are primitive
objects professors your client should display all the factor faculty members in formatted output you
should display the Dean first then the head of departments and two tabs and then each faculty member
of each department in four tabs.
This way it's very clear what the hierarchy is clients should then delete one faculty member from the
computer science department and read display the list of all faculty members in the same above format.
So this is what the output is going to look like as an example.
And this shows the structure of the college.
So for example the dean of technology is listed first.
The two chairs are displayed under them.
The chair of the math and the chair of the computer science.
And then we have all the professors under that.
Then if we were to remove a computer science professor there leaving the organization we would then
show that there's now only two computer science professors.
Computer science professor one in three as an example.
And so this is your assignment go through these slides again if you need to lose a lot of details but
the idea is here to treat composites and leaves the same organizing things around hierarchy Dean's chairs
and professors and then what happens when you remove one.
Good luck and thank you.